we're going to take you to the UN
General Assembly now where the
Palestinian ambassador to the UN Riad
mansor is addressing the assembly
there Nicaragua and Namibia for
remaining at the Forefront of the
international community's efforts
address the plight of the Palestinian
people to enable the realization of
their inalienable rights including to
self-determination and freedom and to
bring an end to the grave and historic
Injustice they have borne for over 75
years since the start of the nakba an
ongoing and Searing nakba that we have
painfully witnessed in the dark days of
these past weeks and across the
decades we are grateful to Ambassador
Ahmed fisel
Muhammad VI Vice chair for presenting
the committee's annual report to the
general assembly reflecting on the
committee's many effort over the past
year and its appeals to the
International Community As We Gather
once again in this assembly to address
the question of Palestine to take stock
of where we are today and where we are
going as the United Nations carries
forth in its permanent responsibility
towards the question of Palestine until
it is justly resolved in all its aspects
in accordance with international law and
the relevant un
resolutions Mr
President the UN Charter starts with
this line we
the peoples of the United
Nations determined to save succeeding
Generations from the scorge of
War I often repeat this line in many of
my
statements not a single Palestinian
generation has been saved from the
scourge of
War every single one has witnessed and
endured Horrors in it
flesh an entire nation over decades has
faced this position
displacement denial of
rights destruction and
death M May m maybe since the 1948
generation this generation is the one
that has has suffered most painfully and
traumatically
this is the deadliest period ever
endured by Palestinians in the Gaza
Strip and they have witnessed many
previous
assaults this is the largest Force
displacement of Palestinians since the
nakba this
destruction is apopyp and the
humanitarian crisis
catastrophic there are no laws
no morals no principles in this world
that can justify this abhorent in Humane
reality it is one that shakes humans
conscience and demands Global action for
justice Mr President the massacres
against our people in Gaza have
mobilized peoples and Nations all around
the world
speaking out against Injustice and
calling for justice calling for a
ceasefire now in Gaza I repeat calling
for a ceasefire now in Gaza calling for
an end to the Israeli
occupation and oppression of the
Palestinian
people calling for a free
Palestine
the general assembly was the first un
body to reflect This Global outrage and
to take a clear and unequivocal stance
for calling for an immediate durable and
sustained humanitarian truths leading to
a secession of
hostilities I must add the Secretary
General called for a humanitarian
ceasefire now now and the president of
the general assembly few minutes ago in
his statement repeated the same
idea the assembly convened in an
emergency special session and took this
courageous step over one month
ago 2/3 of the UN membership voted in
favor of this
resolution had it been implemented then
thousand thousand of Palestinian lives
would have been spared and families
would not have endured such Agony and
anguish in adopting this
resolution the general assembly was
Guided by the imperatives of legality
morality and humanity and it proved also
to be correct
politically it took the security Council
several more deadly and devastating
weeks to finally
act on a less ambitious
resolution but driven by SE by several
of the same humanitarian
considerations addressed by the general
assembly as the assembly's resolution
had
foreseen only a truth could
allow sincere efforts to begin to
address the humanitarian
catastrophe being inflicted by Israel
the occupying power in Gaza only a truce
could lead to the release of people held
in captivity and avoid further Regional
escalation this truth must turn into a
permanent
ceasefire the massacres of Palestinian
children women and men cannot resume
should not resume you should not allow
it to
resume the human conscience cannot bear
it international law including
humanitarian and human rights law
prohibits it international law but also
the Norms of humanity demand that we act
to stop this war against innocent
civilians and save human lives that we
act for humanitarian Aid and access
throughout the Gaza Strip the return of
those displaced without delay the end of
The Siege and blockade and that we act
for
accountability nothing can ever justify
war crimes crimes against humanity and
genocide Mr President as more and more
images of the the devastation in Gaza
reaches the world each one of us has a
choice to
make either for protection of
civilians or their
Slaughter either for the rule of
international law or indiscriminate
Vengeance either for the prospect of
peace or P or Perpetual
conflict virtually every nation
represented here has decid
decied some sooner other than
later to join the right side of
history now we need to stand United in
putting an end to this madness and
charting a way forward for a more just
peaceful stable
future Mr
President 15,000 Palestinians have been
killed in Gaza including more than 6,000
children and 4,000 women more than
30,000 people have been
wounded with many suffering amputations
and burns enduring their injuries and
pain without medical care and with
nowhere safe to heal and
recover over 1.8 million civilians in
Gaza or nearly 80% of the population are
estimated to be internally
displaced the majority of them
refugees displaced for the second third
or fourth times in their
lives of them nearly 1.1 million are
Sheltering in
156 un facilities across
Gaza bearing indignities that no human
should be forced to bear and will and
still not protected even under the UN
flag even that is not respected by the
occupying power as it deliberately
strikes at homes
schools hospitals and un shelter
with barbaric and punitive violence
intent on destroying the bases of human
life in Gaza intent on and terrorizing
and traumatizing
everyone the sheer magnitude of the
killing and maming of the destruction
and forc displacement is testimony to
how
indiscriminate this war is and goes to
show
that its primary targets and victims are
actually the civilian population in the
Gaza
Strip no conflict in recent memory has
seen so many children killed at this
space civilians killed at the
space journalists killed at the space un
staff killed at this space humanitarian
and medic IAL Personnel killed at this
space this is a full-fledged war against
Palestine and its
people this is Rec
confirmed by what we are witnessing in
the West Bank with over
Palestinians killed and thousands have
been injured in the p in the span of
seven
weeks at the hands of isra isi
occupation forces and
settlers added to the more than 180
Palestinians killed prior to
October in total among them 107
children this is the deadliest period
virtually ever witnessed in the West
Bank over
1,200 Palestinians have been displaced
over the same s week weeks period added
to the more than 1,000 forcibly
displaced earlier this year as Israel
carries on nonstop with its illegal
settlement colonization and annexation
of our
land more than 3,000 Palestinian
civilians including
childr have been arrested and detained
by incessant military raids by the
Israeli occupying forces across the West
Bank including East
Jerusalem in the same 7 weeks period now
bringing the number of prisoners to over
10,000
Palestinians held captive in Israeli
jails
enduring you H inhumane
conditions the oppression and
persecution
abuse and discrimination against our
people continues unabated under this
illegal Israeli col Colonial occupation
and upper tide
regime it is the same
logic at play everywhere for the Israeli
government the priority is not
security it is the destruction of the
Palestinian nation of the very presence
and existence of the Palestinian people
on their land of Palestinian
statehood even at the expense of
security through this dispos through
disposition displacement denial of
rights and if all that is not enough
then through death even their right to
life is
denied you know how we know all
this because Israeli leaders cannot get
themselves to hide it
anymore they are telling you this every
day in every statement they make in the
words of one of them Palestinians have
three choices and this one is a minister
sitting in the cabinet of prime minister
Netanyahu the choices
are surrender and
subjugation Exodus or death three
choices surrender and sub
subjugation Exodus or death and we
reject these things because we are proud
people and we are determined to live in
our national
Homeland Mr
President this cast
rophe demonstrated two
things that there is no peace in the
Middle East without a just and Lasting
solution to the question of Palestine in
accordance with international law and
the relevant un
resolutions and that pal Palestinian
Freedom not
further oppression and
occupation is the path to peace and
security for
all Palestinian rights cannot continue
to be sub subordinated violated or
erased they are
inalienable just like for All Peoples
the right to
self-determination the right of our
refugees to return the right to life the
right to exist in dignity and peace and
and stab ility in our homeland
Palestine Palestine cannot Remain the
exception to the rule of law and the
enjoyment of Human
Rights all our efforts must be dedicated
now to prevent further massacres and to
ending the assault on the lives and
existence of the Palestinian Nation but
we must in parallel be preparing for for
an
unprecedented bold and Collective effort
to end colonization and occupation and
aperti and to achieve
peace the two- State solution requires a
strong independent and Sovereign
Palestinian State on the
19667 borders with East Jerusalem as its
capital those who favor such a solution
must take action against the colonial
occupation that prevents and kills such
a prospect and must recognize the state
of
Palestine provide it with membership at
the UN and help it actualize its
sovereignity on the ground you have to
act now we have to become like you a
full member in the United Nations to
begin the process of the actualization
of the two State solution after we end
the
occupation it is your Collective
responsibility to allow us to accomplish
that there is no peace in Middle East
without a solution to the Palestinian
situation the words of Riyad mansor the
Palestinian ambassador to the United
Nations speaking there at un
headquarters in New York addressing the
Assembly of Nations a reminder of course
of what's at stake for the people of
Gaza and indeed the occupied West Bank a
call to make this temporary ceasefire
permanent